# Smart Device Data Analysis for Bellabeat
The project is based on [FitBit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit) (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through [Mobius](https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic)): dataset generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Dataset contains personal fitness tracker data from thirty fitbit users, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. It includes information about daily activity, steps, and heart rate that can be used to explore users’ habits.

Tools that I used: SQL, MS SQL, Excel, and interactive visualization in Tableau.

## Scenario
I am a data analyst working on the marketing analyst team at Bellabeat, a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. I have been asked to focus on one of Bellabeat’s activity tracker and analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights will then help guide marketing strategy for the company. 

## Goal
To analyze smart device usage data for one of Bellabeat's products and provide actionable insights to guide the company's marketing strategy.

## Data Overview
The data comprises two folders:

* From March 12, 2016, to April 11, 2016, consisting of 11 CSV files with various activity data.
* From April 12, 2016, to May 12, 2016, consisting of 18 CSV files with various activity data.

The analysis will primarily focus on the "daily_activity" and "hourly_steps" files. The "daily_activity" files provide summarized information from users' personal trackers, while the "hourly_steps" tables offer a more detailed understanding of users' activity throughout the day.

## Dataset limitations

* Since the datasets in the two folders differ, containing daily tracking data in one and missing in another, we will proceed with only the matching datasets that represent activity throughout the day. 

* Due to the small sample size of only 30 individuals, we need to be careful about how broadly we can apply our findings to the larger population. 

* We don't have specific details like gender and age, which are crucial for a company focusing on women's health products. 

To reduce any biases, we might need to gather more data from additional sources or do more studies with a more diverse and representative sample in the future.
However, despite these limitations, we will continue to analyze the available data to extract as much valuable information as possible. 